Next thing that we can do, it's a kind of
an advanced technique that can really help
people, are called skip links.
And so the idea here being that
if you think about most sites,
the way they're structured, there's
a really large navigation that remains
ultimately the same on every single page,
right?
Home, About, this, that,
the other thing, and
then you have your
actual content under it.
And so, when we're thinking about keyboard
only users, we can start thinking about,
that's gonna get a little bit old if,
let's say, so you have 20 nav items,
like you're a news site.
Every single page they hit, they'll have
to hit Tab 21 times before there'll be
able to get to the real content.
And so we do this kind of fun
technique called a skip link and
I've got a couple of pictures of them.
So if you go to github.com and you hit
Tab, you'll get this blue button that
appears kinda out of nowhere and
says skip to content.
Similarly, on the newyorktimes.com,
if you hit Tab,
you'll get this button that appears and
says skip to content.
And so the basic idea with a skip link is,
you make an anchor and
you put skip to content or whatever
you want in the body of that anchor.
You prepend it to the body of your
websites, you stick it at the very,
very beginning,
you can either do that with JavaScript or
just put it in the HTML if you
have a vanilla HTML website.
You make it visually hidden like
we did in the second lesson.
And then with CSS,
you give it a focused state that
makes it visually not hidden anymore.
And so, since it's an anchor,
it's tabbable,
sighted users will not see it
because it's visually hidden.
When you hit Tab,
it is at the beginning of your website, so
it's the very first
thing that gets focused.
And then the very last thing is you want
the target of that anchor to be the main
content.
And the way that you do that is you
just give the main content an id and
then in your anchor you give it
a pound and then whatever the id is.
This is a common technique used for
single-page websites where you wanna be
able to scroll to places on the page.
So you'd have anchor and it'd be anchor
href, it'd be like pound Hello, and
then under that you'd have
like h1 id Hello, and
then the anchor that automatically
will link to each other.
We'll go through an example of it, but
that's the basic idea for a skip link.
There's libraries out there that do it,
but they're easy to make on your own.
And again, the kinda web aim stuff
here is that says, to be compliant,
you should have a link to
skip the navigation and
any other page elements that
are repeated across all pages, right?
So again, it's not every site but
most sites have a nav,
you should have something at the beginning
that lets people skip right through it.
There's also some other stuff around here,
which is that page titles should be
descriptive, and the navigation of links
should be logical, but for right now we're
just focusing on skip links as a concept.